ROPT = , one entry for each species on the POTCAR file Description: ROPT determines how accurately the projectors are represented in real space. With LREAL =On, the real space projectors are optimized using an algorithm proposed by King-Smith et al.  LREAL =Auto  is the recommended scheme since it is considerably more accurate, resulting in more localized projector functions than with the King-Smith et al. method. Depending on their value, VASP interprets ROPT entries in one of two ways: ABS| ROPT | ≥ 0.1: "conventional"-mode: ABS| ROPT | < 0.1 : "precision"-mode: The "precision" and "conventional" modes may be intermixed, i.e., it is possible to specify In this case, the number of real space points within the cutoff sphere for the first species will be approximately 700, whereas the real space projector functions for the second species are optimized for an accuracy of approximately 1 meV. We recommend to use the "precision" mode with a target accuracy of around 2x10 -4 - 10 -3 eV/atom. If you use the "conventional" mode, in which the number of grid points in the real space projection sphere is specified, you have to select ROPT carefully, especially if a hard species is mixed with a soft species. In that case the following lines in the OUTCAR file must be checked (here is the output for LREAL =Auto, however, the one for LREAL =On is quite similar) QCUT and QGAM are parameters chosen for the generation of this particular PAW dataset (or ultrasoft pseudopotential). The most important information is given in the columns W(low)/X(q) and W(high)/X(q) for LREAL =Auto). In these columns, the values must be as small as possible. If these values are too large increase the ROPT value from the default value (or decrease it if it smaller than 0.1). As a rule of thumb, the maximum allowed value in this column is 10 -3 for PREC =Normal. (For PREC =Low errors might be around 10 -2 . If W(q)/X(q) is larger than 10 -2 the errors introduced by the real space projections can be substantial. In this case ROPT must be specified in the INCAR file to avoid incorrect results. Related tags and sections LREAL , PREC Examples that use this tag References